hey now we're finished with the rougher
stone and now we are going to repeat
steps four five and six on the finer
stone that rough stone happens to be a
1,000 grit stone and the fine stone I'll
be using for finishing is a 6,000 grit
stone but these are details that most
people get overly concerned with and the
you know I could get the same results
with an 800 grit stone and a 3000 grit
stone or as I demonstrated in my earlier
video production I sharpened a blade on
a concrete cinder block and dropped it
on newspaper to get a razor-sharp edge
these are one of the details that people
you know choose to confuse themselves
with and it's really the last thing that
you should be concerned with the I'll
reiterate the point again is that it's
99% technique and 1% 1% the tools so by
laying this blades flat on the fine
stone
I am simply polishing out some of the
rougher scratches in that secondary edge
that were created by grinding the blade
thin and that will that helps protect
the blade against rust it makes it look
prettier and it also makes it easier to
clean up and it gives it a lower
friction coefficient when you're cutting
through things the more highly polished
the blade is and get this nice and shiny
get it ready for class shaving
demonstration
okay so after we have polished that
secondary edge we will raise it up a
hair again and strop that primary edge
now there's an important step coming up
which is to remove any burrs that may
have formed on the edge during the
grinding in of the primary edge and
stropping of the primary edge what we're
going to use is just this soft piece of
wood here it's just under the weight of
the blade itself we're going to lightly
draw through the wood a couple of times
knock off any burr and come back in and
strop again okay now for cutting most
things for cutting vegetable matter or
meats in the kitchen or for sharpening
your pencil in the shop or for
re-roofing your house if you so choose
you know that edge is fine just so it is
in fact you know you can see it shaves
the hair off the arm just fine but it's
not quite the edge it's not where we
want it for shaving of the face yet it's
going to need just a little bit more
work otherwise I'll be paying for that